---
author: CF
categories:
  - cello
  - poetry
  - churches
comments: true
description: shake your hair back...
draft: false
image: images/1998-08-11-mollie.jpg
layout: post
title: Mollie
toc: true
---
    
shake your hair back    
tuck tufts behind your ear    
don't let a smirk escape    
your lips--that would be    
enjoyment.    
closed like shutters,    
empty and withdrawn    
like a rabbit in hibernation.    
you hide another smirk:    
you are not thinking of the    
music.    
why do you play?    
I close my eyes and feel    
the intensity of the emotion    
as the waves of music    
wash over me.    
I close my eyes and    
can still see you.    
playing.    
why?    
pursing your lips,    
casting awkward glances    
at the conductor,    
nodding your head as you move,    
shifting in your seat,    
absently drawing on the chords.    
all there before the darkness    
of my eyes.    
I open them, half expecting    
to see you gone, but you are    
still there and the chorus    
continues, accelerating    
ever upward, spiraling,    
and you play.    
    
when we talk and we    
laugh, telling dirty jokes    
and swapping tragedies--    
why do I not see this part    
of you? are you the artist,    
or am I? I don't feel like one:    
these misshapen words    
all that I can conjure while    
you produce worlds    
from your magic pouch.    
    
how odd that it should be    
you... here, in this place.    
these pews of wood and stone,    
the crucifix above you, and    
I sit at the back,    
almost not a part of this place;    
and you do not see me.    
perhaps you do, now    
letting your gaze wander    
about the church,    
perhaps you spot me.    
what is that look in your eyes?    
weariness? anger? discontent?    
    
what is this? now your    
head is bowed completely,    
dull melancholy in eyes I    
cannot see, but you soon begin.    
    
closing my eyes, I am again    
transported.    
passion in the music, in the    
unspoken words erupting forth    
from the mouth of a great    
river.    
    
somehow I do not know    
if this place suits you. you    
hide yourself well, tucked away    
like your hair behind your ears.    
you open your eyes    
occasionally and let some    
peer deep into your soul,    
for a moment, before you blink    
and the whirlpools drawing me inside    
you are banished. you strike me as one hiding.    
    
perhaps I would not have come,    
but I told you that I would, and so I did.    
I wonder if I shall go to speak with you    
afterwards, or whether I will slip out the door,    
unseen. there might be something poetic in it,    
i'm not sure what. I don't know why I wouldn't,    
but then, why would I?    
odd. I feel as if I've been speaking to you,    
saying all these things to you these last few moments.    
but I haven't. Should I not show you this I'll have    
spoken the words and you'll    
not have heard them. It's all a continuum, you know,    
all of it.    
    
the music builds to a crescendo,    
mounting and mounting,    
piling note after note upon a great heap,    
until it threatens to burst.    
do you?    
    
I didn't lock the door.    
I don't now know why.    
I was standing right there,    
the door in my hand.    
how easy it would it have been to reach    
out and flip a switch?    
perhaps the hand of God    
prevented me.    
    
perhaps if I had locked the door,    
you would not have locked your keys    
inside.    
then would you have ever known    
how lucky you had just been?    
something would have happened    
that you would never see.    
    
Odd. All of it.    
But so am I,    
And you.    
